_pages/technical-writing.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Technical Writing & Publications"
permalink: /technical-writing/
author_profile: true
---

## Technical Writing & Publications

### Reports
- **Sandia Wetland Performance Report (2022-2025)** – Lead author responsible for all text and figures; this annual report evaluates the Sandia wetland’s stability and effectiveness at mitigating contaminant migration, including chromium, PCBs, and stormwater-borne pollutants. Monitoring results show that the wetland remains physically and chemically stable following grade-control structure installation, with consistent water levels, reduced contaminant mobility, and healthy vegetation.

[Download 2024 Sandia Wetland Performance Report](/assets/reports/Sandia_Wetland_Report_2024.pdf)

---
- **Annual Site Environmental Report (ASER, 2023-2024) – Chapter 6: Watershed Quality** - Lead author responsible for all text, figures, and data presentation for Chapter 6, which evaluates watershed water quality at Los Alamos National Laboratory. The chapter summarizes surface water and groundwater monitoring data, compares results to New Mexico water quality standards, and highlights trends in key contaminants including metals, nutrients, and legacy pollutants.

[Download ASER Chapter 6: Watershed Quality](/assets/reports/ASER_2024.pdf#page=176)

---
- **QGIS Training Manual (SERNANP, Peru 2015)** – Authored this practical guide introduces staff of Peru’s National Park Service (SERNANP) to the open-source QGIS software, providing step-by-step exercises to manage, analyze, and visualize geospatial data for conservation planning, zoning, species monitoring, and future scenario modeling. It emphasizes hands-on use of GIS as a core tool for modern protected area management.

[Download QGIS SERNANP Manual (Spanish)](/assets/reports/Manejo_Basico_QGIS_SERNANP.pdf)

Commit message:

Add ecohydro stream class article

_pages/technical-writing.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Technical Writing & Publications"
permalink: /technical-writing/
author_profile: true
---

## Technical Writing & Publications

### Reports
- **Sandia Wetland Performance Report (2022-2025)** – Lead author responsible for all text and figures; this annual report evaluates the Sandia wetland’s stability and effectiveness at mitigating contaminant migration, including chromium, PCBs, and stormwater-borne pollutants. Monitoring results show that the wetland remains physically and chemically stable following grade-control structure installation, with consistent water levels, reduced contaminant mobility, and healthy vegetation.

[Download 2024 Sandia Wetland Performance Report](/assets/reports/Sandia_Wetland_Report_2024.pdf)

---
- **Annual Site Environmental Report (ASER, 2023-2024) – Chapter 6: Watershed Quality** - Lead author responsible for all text, figures, and data presentation for Chapter 6, which evaluates watershed water quality at Los Alamos National Laboratory. The chapter summarizes surface water and groundwater monitoring data, compares results to New Mexico water quality standards, and highlights trends in key contaminants including metals, nutrients, and legacy pollutants.

[Download 2024 ASER Chapter 6: Watershed Quality](/assets/reports/ASER_2024.pdf#page=176)
---
### Peer-Reviewed Publication – Stream Metrics Contribution
**Levick, L., Hammer, S., Lyon, R., Murray, J., Birtwistle, A., Guertin, P., Goodrich, D., Bledsoe, B., & Laituri, M. (2018).** *An ecohydrological stream type classification of intermittent and ephemeral streams in the southwestern United States.* *Journal of Arid Environments*, 155, 16–35. [View on ScienceDirect](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0140196318300375)

Contributed to the development and analysis of **stream metrics** using the Automated Geospatial Watershed Assessment (AGWA) tool to run **SWAT** and **KINEROS2** hydrologic models. These simulations were used to evaluate **flow permanence, runoff generation, and peak flow dynamics** across a range of ephemeral and intermittent stream types, supporting an ecohydrological classification framework for arid and semi-arid watersheds in the southwestern United States.

---
- **QGIS Training Manual (SERNANP Peru, 2015)** – Authored this practical guide introduces staff of Peru’s National Park Service (SERNANP) to the open-source QGIS software, providing step-by-step exercises to manage, analyze, and visualize geospatial data for conservation planning, zoning, species monitoring, and future scenario modeling. It emphasizes hands-on use of GIS as a core tool for modern protected area management.

[Download 2015 QGIS SERNANP Manual (Spanish)](/assets/reports/Manejo_Basico_QGIS_SERNANP.pdf)
